So we understood that we have different ways to add different font families or generic families to our
website.
Now let's have a look at the current situation on our website now and then play around with this font
family property.
For that, I'm on the packages page and I would like to have a look at a specific part of this page, at
this part
right here, our package info class.
Why do I want to choose that?
Well because inside this package info class, we basically have just some text and the text is something
we need if we want to play around with font families.
Now as you can see, I selected this class right here
and if I now pull this up a bit, we can see that we have a specific font size applied,
we know the font size property already,
nevertheless we'll also have a look at that again
but the important thing we have to keep in mind now is that the font family,
this one right here is now inherited from our body because at the beginning of this course, we imported
the font family from Google fonts.
So basically, we use a so-called web font right now.
We will also keep this web font for the entire website
but I would like to change this default font family right here for our package info class.
Therefore, let's have a look at the import of the web font again to see what we did so far
and let's then change the font family for our info class, for our package info class right here.
In our project, if we go to the index.html file, so the main index.html file, you can see that
these are the links to the Google web fonts that Max added throughout this course. We will keep these links,
I will not delete them because Google still uses web fonts but the important thing is that this is
the import we have to make sure that the fonts are available to all our users.
In the shared.css file then, right here,
we can see that we have our body selector and we said that the font family should be Monserrat or
sans-serif, I'll dive into the syntax in a few seconds.
So this is Monserrat, right here and if we go back to our index.html file, we can see that this was imported
right here.
Now with that, we made sure that our entire website basically uses this font family and if you think
back about our slides, I said that the first way to display fonts is the default way,
so basically let the browser decide what font family it should display.
Now what happens if I comment this font family out, right here,
like this and like that and now go back to our website?
Keep in mind, at the moment we used the Monserrat font family right here and if we now reload the
page, we can see some interesting things.
The first thing we see is that our nav bar kind of crashed.
What's the reason for that?
Well the font family that now is supplied by default,
we will in a few seconds find out which one this is, simply needs more space, more width than the family
we had before, our web font.
This means if we go back to the shared.css file and scroll down to our, as I would call it, dirty
fix, this one right here and increase the width right here
in our calculation to 70 for example and would reload the page,
you can see that the nav bar would work again.
Still,
this is our dirty fix for the moment, so we will keep it to 44 for now because the nav bar is not our actual
focus.
I just wanted to show you that we could fix that easily but it's not the purpose of this module now.
As we are talking about the nav bar already and you probably fix this in the meanwhile
but if we go to the customers page and then click onto start hosting, then you had this error before.
As I said, you probably fixed it already,
in case you didn't, just go to the index.html file in the customers folder and if you now scroll down a bit,
you can see the reason for this error right here.
We have to move one level up right here,
so for the third list item right here,
so you have to add dot dot and a slash
and if we now go back to our page, jump back and now click start hosting, you can see that this link
is working fine now.
Now back to packages,
I just wanted to make sure that we have the same status in our project now
and we can also close this index.html
file. Again, scroll up again to our body selector in the shared.css file.
That was a lot of jumping around now,
I hope you're still with me because now we can go back to our actual problem. And the actual problem
is not a real problem because we actually simply commented out the font family,
this one right here,
so at the moment we don't have any font family applied in our code and still we saw that the font changed.
Let me maybe comment this out quickly for you so that we can see what happened, let's do this one, like that. Here
we had our font that we imported
and if we now comment this out again, we are back with the new font. As you can see, the font family changed
obviously. If we look into our styles, we cannot find the font family anymore,
right here there is no font family but if we go to our computed tab and then scroll down a bit, right
here to our font family, this one, you can see that Verdana is now applied.
And if you remember when we had a look at the browser settings,
Verdana was somewhere there.
Let's have a look and go back to the settings, right here
and indeed, our standard font is now Verdana.
This means if I change this to Times New Roman for example and go back to our website, you can see
that the font family now changed to Times New Roman but I think this is really ugly,
so let's switch it back to Verdana maybe, like that.
So as you can see, if we don't add the font family property to our code on the website, then the default
browser setting is the one that defines the font family that you selected there and the disadvantage of
this approach is of course that as I said in the beginning on the slide, the font family then totally
depends on the user settings
and with that, you have no control at all of the font family that will be displayed on your website.
So not adding a font family,
probably not what we're going to do.
So let's go back to the code and let's see what else we can change right here.